# Broadway Elixir

> Build concurrent and multi-stage data ingestion and data processing pipelines with Elixir.

References:

- [Samuel Mullen Post](https://samuelmullen.com/articles/understanding-elixirs-broadway)

Notes about Broadway:

- Broadway is a sort of mini-framework for the GenStage library.
- Broadway grew out of a focus “on events and on operational features, such as metrics, automatic acknowledgements, failure handling, and so on.
- In both libraries, back-pressure allows “consumers” to signal producers their availability to receive data. Producers stop sending data to a consumer when it meets its capacity, and begins sending data again once the consumer has dealt with its backlog. 
- We only get the amount of events necessary from upstream sources, never flooding the pipeline.
- Broadway automatically acknowledges messages at the end of the pipeline or in case of errors.
- Broadway enables you to choose how best to handle the errors and the data that caused them.
- Broadway provides built-in batching, allowing you to group messages either by size and/or by time.
- Broadway pipelines are carefully designed to minimize data loss. 
- Broadway ships with a built-in test API, making it easy to push test messages through the pipeline and making sure the event was properly processed.
- Broadway allows developers to batch messages based on dynamic partitions.

## Example

- A broadway app has two components: producers and consumers. 
- Producers are GenStage modules which produces events.
- The Consumers processes the events generated by producers.
- Transformers are only needed if your producer doesn’t return a `%Broadway.Message{}`

How to implement:
* 1. Create a producer module using `GenStage`.
* 2. Implement a transformer module to create Broadway Messages from producers.
* 3. Implement Broadway configuration and setup
  * Handle the configuration in the `start_link`
  * The previous implementation starts a Broadway process linked to the current one.
  * `Name` option is used for name registration.
  * `Producers` is a key for define multiple producers. (We need to declare the producer module, the transformer module and number of processes to be started)
  * `Processors`: Single processor could be defined here.
  * `handle_message/3`: Here you can do any kind of processing with the incoming message.



<details>
  <summary>Producer</summary>

`Producer`
``` elixir
defmodule MyApp.Counter do
  use GenStage

  def start_link(number) do
    GenStage.start_link(Counter, number)
  end

  def init(counter) do
    {:producer, counter}
  end

  //We create the handle_demand/2 function to receive “demand” from processors
  def handle_demand(demand, counter) when demand > 0 do
    events = Enum.to_list(counter..counter+demand-1)

    {:noreply, events, counter + demand}
  end
end
```  
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Transformer</summary>

  `Transformer`
```elixir
defmodule MyApp.CounterMessage do
  def transform(event, _opts) do
    message = %Broadway.Message{
      data: event,
      acknowledger: {__MODULE__, :ack_id, event}
    }
  end

  def ack(_ref, _successes, _failures) do
    :ok
  end
end
```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Configuration</summary>

  
`Configuration`
```elixir
defmodule MyApp do
  use Broadway

  alias Broadway.Message

  def start_link(_opts) do
    Broadway.start_link(__MODULE__,
      name: MyAppExample,
      producers: [
        default: [
          module: {MyApp.Counter, 0},
          transformer: {MyApp.CounterMessage, :transform, []},
          stages: 1
        ]
      ],
      processors: [
        default: [stages: 2]
      ],
    )
  end

  def handle_message(:default, %Message{data: data} = message, _context) do
    Process.sleep 1000

    message
    |> IO.inspect
  end
end
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Broadway Message</summary>

`Configuration`
```elixir
  %Broadway.Message{
  acknowledger: {MyApp.CounterMessage, :ack_id, 0},
  batch_key: :default,
  batcher: :default,
  data: 0,
  metadata: %{},
  status: :ok
}
```
</details>
